README.md, before:

# Market-HMM
-Built with Python 3.10.1
-Install requirements with `pip install -r requirements.txt`
-Adjust the "data_file_path" of the config to match the repo.

## Configuration
-"tickers":

-"momentum_intervals":

-"volatility_interval":

-"bearish_cutoff": a float between 0.01 and 0.99.
-Note: This is the cut off probability of a bearish state transition, used to filter assets when building the portfolio.

-"start_date":

-"end_date":

-"max_retries": an int for max number of retries of training a model.
-Note: If training fails beyond nth retries for convergence and on jitter of states then an assessment of the underlying data is necessary.

-"moving_average": Simple moving average lookback window (trading days).
-Note: This is used to further filter assets based on being below thier SMA.
-See: A Quantitative Approach to Tactical Asset Allocation, 2007 Faber, M

-"data_file_path": Path to the repo for storage of data file.

## Config types
-NOTE: Rather than swap tickers around a second argument is used to flag which config file to use.
`python run.py --test --stock` or `python run.py --test --etf`

## Train
`python run.py --train --etf`
-Training is utilized to inspect the model performance on identifing states, convergence, and labeling states.

## Infer
`python run.py --infer --stock`
-Inferencing is utilized to inspect the model performance on predicted new states and provides checking for identifing new states, labeling predicted states, and propagating probabilities to future t.

## Build Portfolio
`python run.py --build --etf`

## Test Portfolio
`python run.py --test --stock`
NOTE: currently has failures on timeouts from data handling.

## Artifacts
-Artifacts are located within each sub directory of hmm directory.
-Examples: hmm/train/artifacts, hmm/infer/artifacts, hmm/build/artifacts

Commit message:

-Update readme update with current config.

README.md, after:

# Market-HMM
-Built with Python 3.10.1
-Install requirements with `pip install -r requirements.txt`
-Adjust the "data_file_path" of the config to match the repo.

## Configuration
The config files are stored within the configs directory of the repository. 

-"tickers": (list of str), List of tickers that will represent the portfolio the model is working with.

-"momentum_intervals": (list of int), Intervals used to calculate momentum over a time window (trading days.)

-"volatility_interval": (int), Interval used to calculate volatility over a time window (trading days.)

-"model_warmup": (int), time period in years for the model to utilize for training dataset.

-"bearish_cutoff": (float), between 0.01 and 0.99.
-Note: This is the cut off probability of a bearish state transition, used to filter assets when building the portfolio.

-"start_date": (str), Start date to begin the model
-Note: Model needs a warmup period before beginning to train models. See model_warmup

-"end_date": (str), End date for the model to finish.

-"max_retries": (int), max number of retries of training a model.
-Note: If training fails beyond nth retries for convergence and on jitter of states then an assessment of the underlying data is necessary.

-"moving_average": (int), Simple moving average lookback window (trading days).
-Note: This is used to further filter assets based on being below thier SMA.
-See: A Quantitative Approach to Tactical Asset Allocation, 2007 Faber, M

-"data_file_path": (string), Path to the repo for storage of data file.

-"persist": (true or false), This should be set to false if running test. Set to true to inspect overall model performance.

## Config types
-NOTE: Rather than swap tickers around a second argument is used to flag which config file to use.
`python run.py --test --stock` or `python run.py --test --etf`

## Train
`python run.py --train --etf`
-Training is utilized to inspect the model performance on identifing states, convergence, and labeling states.

## Infer
`python run.py --infer --stock`
-Inferencing is utilized to inspect the model performance on predicted new states and provides checking for identifing new states, labeling predicted states, and propagating probabilities to future t.

## Build Portfolio
`python run.py --build --etf`

## Test Portfolio
`python run.py --test --stock`
NOTE: currently has failures on timeouts from data handling.

## Artifacts
-Artifacts are located within each sub directory of hmm directory.
-Examples: hmm/train/artifacts, hmm/infer/artifacts, hmm/build/artifacts
